# ChatGPTravel
### Your new favorite virtual travel agent!

#### Created by: Bella Karduck and Theodora Vorias

This program uses ChatGPT, a language model developed by OpenAI, to provide travel suggestions. If you know where you want to go, you can investigate and find further information about that destination. Alternatively, if you have no idea where to travel, or just want a new perspective, you can provide your travel preferences and the program will provide a specially cultivated list of recommendations for where to go, as well as further information about what to do, where to stay, what to eat, and a relative budget. Overall, ChatGPT is a powerful tool that can understand and respond to a wide range of natural language queries, making it ideal for providing specific and concise travel advice and recommendations.

## Installation

To use this program, you will need to have Python 3 installed on your computer. You will also need to install the openai Python package, which provides an easy-to-use interface for accessing ChatGPT. 


You can install the openai and regex packages (if you don't have them) using pip, a popular Python package manager:

pip install openai

pip install regex

You will need your own API key and organization code to access the API. This can be obtained by making a free account with the OpenAI developer website. You must replace the openai.organization and openai.api_key variables with your own API key and organization code. You also may want to delete "from apikeys import apiInfo" on line 4. We chose to read in the api key and organization values secretly via another file. You may do the same, or just use the variables if you are not sharing the code anywhere!


## Usage

To run the program, simply execute the main.py script after ensuring you have access to the API and have the dependencies installed:

First, the program will prompt you to decide whether you have a destination in mind or you need help picking a place out. If you don't know where you want to go, you will be able to be able to choose from a list of 10 places that are generated based on your preferences. 

Questions that will be asked about preferences include: 

What month of the year and for how long would you like to travel?
What kind of climate do you prefer?
What type of activities would you like the trip to focus on?
What is your preferred travel style (i.e. solo, family, friends, romantic)?

Once you have chosen a destination, whether from the generated list or from the one you had in mind, the program will then ask you to decide if you would like to learn more about your destination. 

It will ask specifically about if you would like to learn about the following (still based on the previously entered trip preferences):

The 10 best ctivities to do at the destination based on your focus
The 10 best hotel options
The 10 best restaurant options
The estimated trip budget

For the hotel and restaurant options, your desired budget will be considered when providing the recommendations. 

Finally, once all of the potential recommendations have been provided, the program will ask if you would like to search again. It will also ask if you want to save your recommendations to a text file called TripInfo.txt. The program will run until you decide you don't want to learn about new destinations anymore! 

We hope you find this as a useful tool for deciding where you want to go on your next trip! The goal of the program is to make your experience finding the best activities/hotels/restaurants easier than consulting the conglomerate of opinion based recommendations and sponsored travel websites that always seem to be impossible to comb through to find helpful and easy to digest suggestions. 

Enjoy using this to find trip ideas and activities you would have never began to think of; with ChatGPTravel, the world is at your fingertips (literally...)!



### Disclaimer

Please note that the information provided by ChatGPT is generated by a machine learning algorithm and may not always be accurate or up-to-date (as far as we can tell - the data was trained on up to sometime in 2021). With this being said - use the information provided at your own risk, and always double-check important details such as travel restrictions and safety precautions. Additionally, at times, the AI struggles to estimate a price, saying you should consult a travel website. It works more times than not, but for some trips, ChatGPT won't give a monetary estimate. 


